Add migration guide (#356)
scikit-build/scikit-build-core: docs/migration_guide.md

# Migrating from scikit-build

```{warning}
scikit-build-core is under active development.
This guidance will be updated on a best-effort basis, but if you are working at the bleeding edge some of it may be out of date.
```

## Config changes

- The `build-system.build-backend` key in pyproject.toml must be changed to
  `scikit_build_core.build`.
- Replace `scikit-build` with `scikit-build-core` in `build-system.requires`.
- You may remove `cmake` and `ninja` from `build-system.requires` (IS THIS
  REQUIRED? CAN THESE BE LEFT IN PLACE IF DESIRED? WHAT IF STRICTER VERSIONS

>   REQUIREMENTS ARE NEEDED THAN WHAT SCIKIT-BUILD-CORE'S CONFIG SUPPORTS?)

Reviewer: It is highly, highly recommended since adding them to your requires in the first place is problematic. If you are compiling on a non-binary supported system (which is the main reason a package with lots of wheels gets compiled on a user's system!), then this is broken. That includes WebAssembly, BSDs, Raspberry pi, Android, iOS, SunOS, etc. You can't download a PyPI wheel of ninja or cmake, but you probably can install it yourself. By not putting it here, and letting scikit-build-core inject it if it's required, you can support building from source in a lot more situations.

To configure it, use `[tool.scikit-build] cmake.minimum-required` and `ninja.minimum-required` and `ninja.make-fallback`.

- You must fill out the `tool.scikit-build` table in pyproject.toml, see

>   [getting started](./getting_started.md) for more information.

Reviewer: A great advanced trick to go from setup.py/setup.cfg to pyproject.toml quickly is to change `skbuild` into `setuptools`, use `hatch new --init` to convert, then change `hatchling` back into `scikit-build-core`.

Author: This is mainly useful if you have everything in setup.py instead of pyproject.toml, right?

Reviewer: Well, you can't put everything in pyproject.toml if you are using scikit-build classic. It requires some values be present in `setup.py`. But yes, it's mostly useful to move things from setup.cfg/setup.py to pyproject.toml.

## CMake changes

scikit-build users wishing to switch to scikit-build-core should be aware of the

> following changes that must be made to their CMake files:

Reviewer: One other change is the install directory. scikit-build tries (very buggily, based on issues!) to put things in the package folder, while scikit-build-core doesn't muddle with it and installs to the site-packages folder directly instead. Adding `wheel.install-dir = "<package_name>"` will avoid CMakeLists changes, though it might be better to install to `<package_dir>`.

Author: For sure, moving away from that model is definitely an improvement in my book.

- The PythonExtensions CMake module distributed with scikit-build is not part of
  scikit-build-core. Due to improvement in CMake's built-in support for building
  Python extension modules, this module is no longer necessary. Change

```cmake
find_package(PythonExtensions REQUIRED)
add_library(${LIBRARY} MODULE ${FILENAME})
python_extension_module(${LIBRARY})
```

to

```cmake
find_package(Python COMPONENTS Interpreter Development.Module REQUIRED)
python_add_library(${LIBRARY} MODULE ${FILENAME})
```

- The UseCython CMake module distributed with scikit-build is not currently
  supported. For examples on how to use Cython, see
  [our getting started guide](./getting_started.md)
- The `SKBUILD_CONFIGURE_OPTIONS` environment variable is not yet supported. For
  now, using `CMAKE_ARGS` is a suitable substitute.
- The `SKBUILD_BUILD_OPTIONS` environment variable is not yet supported.

## Misc changes

> - MANIFEST.in files are not (yet?) supported.

Reviewer: MANIFEST.in is a setuptools thing. We use `sdist.include/exclude`, and start from the gitignore file.

Author: Yup I realize it's a setuptools thing, wasn't sure if the plan was to support those files in the same way or not with scikit-build-core. In that case I'll update the guide to state how MANIFEST should be translated to these lists.

  Instead, set the minimum required versions in the `[tool.scikit-build]` table:
  `cmake.minimum-required` and `ninja.minimum-required`.
- You must fill out the `tool.scikit-build` table in pyproject.toml, see
  [getting started](./getting_started.md) for more information.
- If your project is primarily configured using setup.py or setup.cfg, you will
  need to move the configuration to pyproject.toml. The
  [project metadata spec](https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/specifications/declaring-project-metadata/#declaring-project-metadata)
  shows the information that can be placed directly in the project table. For
  additional metadata, see [our configuration guide](./configuration.md). A
  useful trick for performing this migration is to change the `build-backend`
  from `skbuild` to `setuptools`, install `hatch`, and run `hatch init --new`.
  This should automatically migrate the configuration to pyproject.toml, after
  which you can change the `build-backend` to `scikit-build-core`.
- If you specify files to include in sdists via MANIFEST.in, with
  `scikit-build-core` you should now instead use the `sdist.include` and

>   `sdist.exclude` fields in the `tool.scikit-build` table

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  `sdist.exclude` fields in the `tool.scikit-build` table. Note that scikit-build-core uses all non `.gitignore`'d files by default, so this is often minimal or not needed.
```

## CMake changes

scikit-build users wishing to switch to scikit-build-core should be aware of the
following changes that must be made to their CMake files:

- The PythonExtensions CMake module distributed with scikit-build is not part of

>   scikit-build-core. Due to improvement in CMake's built-in support for building

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  scikit-build-core. Due to improvements in CMake's built-in support for building
```

>   Python extension modules, this module is no longer necessary. Change

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Python extension modules, most of this module is no longer necessary. Change
```

```cmake
find_package(PythonExtensions REQUIRED)
add_library(${LIBRARY} MODULE ${FILENAME})
python_extension_module(${LIBRARY})
```

to

```cmake
find_package(Python COMPONENTS Interpreter Development.Module REQUIRED)

> python_add_library(${LIBRARY} MODULE ${FILENAME})

Reviewer: ```suggestion
python_add_library(${LIBRARY} MODULE WITH_SOABI ${FILENAME})
```

Author: Is this option required? Is there any reason not to include the ABI in the module name? If it controls what version of the library the Python interpreter loads at runtime (I believe that is the case for extension modules) then is there really any situation where you _wouldn't_ specify this option?

Reviewer: If you don't specify it, PyPy breaks, since it won't load `libpackage.so` since it thinks it might have been compiled for CPython. And you still want this for CPython, as there's no harm in being more specific - CPython looks for full extensions suffix first. I think pyodide might require it as well to do the rewriting if you are cross-compiling to WASM. Etc.

Author: Got it.

```

- The UseCython CMake module distributed with scikit-build is not currently
  supported. For examples on how to use Cython, see

>   [our getting started guide](./getting_started.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  [our getting started guide](./getting_started.md) for now.
```

> - The `SKBUILD_CONFIGURE_OPTIONS` environment variable is not yet supported. For
>   now, using `CMAKE_ARGS` is a suitable substitute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `SKBUILD_CONFIGURE_OPTIONS` environment variable now named `SKBUILD_CMAKE_ARGS` for consistency.
```

> - The `SKBUILD_BUILD_OPTIONS` environment variable is not yet supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `SKBUILD_BUILD_OPTIONS` environment variable is not supported. Use `CMAKE_BUILD_PARALLEL_LEVEL` or `SKBUILD_CMAKE_VERBOSE` to set these options directly.
```

## Misc changes

> - sdist builds will not follow symlinks

Reviewer: This is not true anymore as of version 0.4.5.

  `sdist.exclude` fields in the `tool.scikit-build` table. Note that
  scikit-build-core uses all non `.gitignore`'d files by default, so this is
  often minimal or not needed.

## CMake changes

scikit-build users wishing to switch to scikit-build-core should be aware of the
following changes that must be made to their CMake files:

- The PythonExtensions CMake module distributed with scikit-build is not part of
  scikit-build-core. Due to improvements in CMake's built-in support for
  building Python extension modules, most of this module is no longer necessary.
  Change

```cmake
find_package(PythonExtensions REQUIRED)
add_library(${LIBRARY} MODULE ${FILENAME})
python_extension_module(${LIBRARY})
```

to

```cmake
find_package(Python COMPONENTS Interpreter Development.Module REQUIRED)
python_add_library(${LIBRARY} MODULE ${FILENAME})
```

- The UseCython CMake module distributed with scikit-build is not currently
  supported. For examples on how to use Cython, see
  [our getting started guide](./getting_started.md) for now.
- The `SKBUILD_CONFIGURE_OPTIONS` environment variable is now named
  `SKBUILD_CMAKE_ARGS` for consistency.

> - The `SKBUILD_BUILD_OPTIONS` environment variable is not yet supported. Some

Author: Sounds good, will remove.
